it was a miracle those were the only
words a Pan American pilot could find
today to describe the safe landing of
his disabled airliner after it lost part
of a wing and caught fire in the air the
plane was bound from San Francisco
International Airport to Hawaii it
scattered flaming debris over the San
Francisco area before landing safely
late yesterday at Travis Air Force Base
northeast of the city this was the scene
at Travis Air Force Base only moments
after the crippled jetliner had touched
down in a fantastic landing the hero of
the day was the pilot captain CH Kimes
from Danville California the plane had
only been in flight for 34 minutes out
of San Francisco's International Airport
and suddenly at an altitude of between
five and six hundred feet the fire broke
out in captain x words I had no idea
what caused it it could have been a bird
flying into the engine intake or it
could have been engine failure it was a
grotesque sight one third of the right
wing gone reminiscent of a wounded
bomber returning from a combat mission
the volatile jet fuel was still dripping
from the ripped open wing tanks as these
pictures were taken
among the 143 passengers were mr. and
mrs. William Richmond from Fair Oaks
near Sacramento they had an
eight-millimeter home movie camera with
them and they were able to take
spectacular films of the flight mr.
Richmond described his exclusive color
film 4k NBC News well when we started to
take off why my wife here started to
take movies of the actual takeoff and
just about the time we started to put
the camera away by the wing burst and
pet fire look just like a lighter
cigarette lighter just like that you
know it's just bursting in flames and
she's kept right on taking the movies of
the actual fire itself and then a piece
of the I think a piece of the wing fell
off in it very big piece and it kept
getting bigger and then their plane went
faster and started to go out and I gave
a sigh of relief but then it came up
again and then it went faster again and
then it died out you have to do a
wonderful job he actually speeded up the
plane and put out the fire itself and
when a piece of the wing went the fella
next to me just said to his hands up to
that sit we're through and now I thought
we were I really did but then the fire
went out completely and just before we
got here to Travis the flame started up
again it was smoke and I thought sure it
was going to start all over again and
I'm first by this time I given up really
hope but the pilot the captain of the
plane he started speeding it up again
and put it out for the second time did a
very wonderful job I thought but we
wouldn't be if it wasn't for him why
were you taking the pictures well one
thought that I had at this time right at
the time she was taking the pictures
that at least if we didn't make it maybe
someone could find it the pitchers in
whatever wreckage oh there was and be
able to tell exactly what did happen and
this is why I felt that it was a good
idea for her to take the movies at this
time
so that if you know if something had
happened why they at least could find
the film and see what had actually
happened the big engine fell out of the
sky and ripped through the roof of a
cabinet shop in San Bruno a small
community south of San Francisco there
were nearly a dozen workers in that
building the engine missed them by less
than 15 feet it sliced through a wooden
beam just under the roof and then
charged out of the building through an
eighth inch thick concrete wall outside
it tore through and scattered some
mobile equipment owned by the firm and
finally came to rest on a mound of dirt
a large section of the wing slammed down
on the Grand Street in South San
Francisco there started a small grass
fire a 6-foot piece of wing hit the
ground in Holy Cross Cemetery and what
appeared like a section from the exhaust
struck at the rear of a housing area
also in South San Francisco miraculously
there were no injury again at Travis the
excitement was not over yet
an American dispatched another 707 to
the base to pick up the passengers
another plane to take them across the
Pacific but this jet also got into
trouble its nose gear collapsed only
seconds after it stopped on the runway
finally a third one arrived to Travis
and it landed safely ugly 143 original
passengers all but eight boarded the
third jet to continue their memorable
trip on to Hawaii
a courageous tribute to man's confidence
in the machines he built